manual/src/asciidoc/_02-spring.adoc, before:

== Support for Spring

As long as you don't do anything too exotic, `@RestController` -annotated Spring controllers should
just work. Consider the following example:

[source,kotlin]
----
package hello

@RestController
@RequestMapping("/topic")
class TopicController {

    @PostMapping("/{topic:[a-zA-Z]+}")
    fun postMessage(@PathVariable topic: String,
                    @RequestBody message: Message,
                    @RequestParam name: String?,
                    response: HttpServletResponse): PostResponse {
        ...
    }
}
----

This creates a TypeScript class with following interface:

[source,typescript]
----
class TopicEndpoint {

    postMessage(topic: string, message: Message, name: string | null): Observable<PostResponse> {
        ...
    }
}
----

The `@PathVariable`, `@RequestBody` and `@RequestParam` parameters are all present in the generated method,
but the `response` parameter is not, since it makes no sense for the caller to pass that. Also note that
Kotlin's nullable type turns into nullable type in TypeScript.

TIP: If you are writing Java instead of Kotlin, you can add `@Nullable` from
https://search.maven.org/artifact/org.jetbrains/annotations/[`org.jetbrains:annotations`] to
make Apina understand that your types are nullable.

Commit message:

Support for more nullability annotations

manual/src/asciidoc/_02-spring.adoc, after:

== Support for Spring

As long as you don't do anything too exotic, `@RestController` -annotated Spring controllers should
just work. Consider the following example:

[source,kotlin]
----
package hello

@RestController
@RequestMapping("/topic")
class TopicController {

    @PostMapping("/{topic:[a-zA-Z]+}")
    fun postMessage(@PathVariable topic: String,
                    @RequestBody message: Message,
                    @RequestParam name: String?,
                    response: HttpServletResponse): PostResponse {
        ...
    }
}
----

This creates a TypeScript class with following interface:

[source,typescript]
----
class TopicEndpoint {

    postMessage(topic: string, message: Message, name: string | null): Observable<PostResponse> {
        ...
    }
}
----

The `@PathVariable`, `@RequestBody` and `@RequestParam` parameters are all present in the generated method,
but the `response` parameter is not, since it makes no sense for the caller to pass that. Also note that
Kotlin's nullable type turns into nullable type in TypeScript.

TIP: If you are writing Java instead of Kotlin, you can add use nullability annotations
(`@Nullable`, `@CheckForNull` etc.) from most well-known libraries to signal nullability
(eg. `org.jetbrains:annotations` or FindBugs).
